---
layout: post
title:  "Spinning Up Nodes"
date:   2021-02-10 17:46:30 -0800
categories: jekyll update
---

I spent part of the week chasing an annoying rust compiler bug I ran into while trying to debug an Edgeware smart contract. Haven't quite caught it yet, part way through trying to dig through the rustc source code but I think I'm getting close. I'll hopefully have a writeup of that if I can catch it.

The other part of the week I spent spinning up staking nodes. I have one on edg under `PERENELLE`, and one on cardano under `LAVA`.

It was dramatically easier to set up the edgeware node. Both were on Digital Ocean, and the setup had instructions available through the community, but the substrate node was straightforward and let me use polkadot.js.org to generate the live keys for the node, which was nice. It also derived them from your wallet which means you can use a hardware wallet if you want to.

The cardano node was extremely unfriendly, more difficult than most services I've set up. The process required like 10 different keys and certificates which were all generated by specific subcommands in a command line utility. Half the steps are recommended to be performed on a cold offline laptop so your keys don't touch the internet, which makes sense but since nothing is managed for you and stuff needs to be signed you go back and forth like 10 times with a USB drive or something.

Now waiting to see if I can generate a block in either. With solidity nodes there's an active set and you have to be in it to actually create blocks, which means you have to beat the lowest amount of stake among current validators. Cardano is strictly proportional random chance so even without additional backing there's some~ chance a node will generate a block in a given period even if the total stake is low.

I'm excited about proof of stake because I think the "actually use it for anything" goal of smart contracts is exciting, and ETH fees are getting so high that the fees are only really reasonable if you're moving a large amount of money around at a time, which puts stuff out of range of normal every day transactions. Plus, like, spending 0.5% of all our electricity on hashes seems sub-optimal. On the other hand, I remember it feeling a lot easier to participate in the network when you could just spin up a PoW node and have it attempt hashes. After a while it wasn't profitable anymore without ASICs but it still felt like it was theoretically available in a very elegant way. Moving to more professional people running nodes seems to be the way things are going, but it's bittersweet for me.